[MUSIC]
In this video,
we'll see a couple of examples of how
Bayesian optimization can be
applied to real world problems.
So the first one is hyperparameter tuning.
You usually train your neural networks and
you have to retrain them
many times by finding optimal
number of layers, the layer sizes,
whether to use dropout or not,
to use batch normalization, and
which nonlinearity should you use,
the RELU, SELU, and so on.
Also you have training parameters
like learning rate, momentum, or
maybe it can change
the different optimizers.
For example, and SGD.
So what you could do is you could use
the Bayesian optimization to find
the best values of all of those
parameters for you automatically.
It usually finds better optima than
when you tune those by hand, and
also it allows for honest comparison
with other methods when you do research.
For example,
you came up with a brilliant method and
you spend a lot of time tuning
the parameters for it, and
in your paper you want to compare
your model with some other models.
And it is really tempting to not to spend
much time tuning the parameters for
the other model.
However, what you could do is
you could run the automatic
hyperparameter tuning to
find the best variables for
those parameters for
the model that you are comparing with, and
in this case the comparison
would be more honest.
So the problem here actually is that
we have a mixture of discrete and
continuous variables.
For example, we have the learning
rate that is continuous, and we have
the parameter whether to use drop out or
not, which is actually a binary decision.
So how can we mix the continuous and
discrete variables for Gaussian process?
Well, the simple trick is like this.
You treat discrete variables as
continuous when you fitting process.
So for example, when you use drop out,
this would be the value one and
when you don't use it,
it would be a value of zero.
And then when you try to maximize
the acquisition function, you optimize
it by [INAUDIBLE] forcing whole
possible values of discrete variables.
So for example, you will find
the maximum of the acquisition
function without drop out,
we'll find it with drop out, and
then select the one case
that is better for you.
One special case is when
all variables are discrete.
Those are called multi-armed bandits, and
they are widely used in
information retrieval tasks.
For example, when you're building
a search engine result page,
you can select a lot of
hyperparameters that are discrete, and
for this case, the Bayesian
optimization is really useful.
Another application is drug discovery.
We have some molecules that can probably
be the drugs for some severe diseases.
In this case, I have the molecule of and
we can represent it using string.
This string is called SMILES and
it can be constructed from
the molecule very simply.
What you can do then is you can
build an autoencoder that will try
to take the SMILES as an input and
reproduce itself as an output.
You can use a variational autoencoder
that we talked about in week
five to make the latent space dense,
that is you can move along the space and
for each point, you will be able to
reconstruct some valid molecule.
And now here's a trick, you know
that some molecules are useful for
curing some diseases and some are not.
And so here I have a plot of a latent
space, and in this latent space,
you want to find
the position of the maximum,
that is the molecule that will be best for
cures and diseases.
After you find the maximum
in the latent space,
you simply plug it in to the decoder and
reconstruct the molecule, and
then you can do some trials, for
example in vitro or in viva.
And after this, you get the value
of the point, the new value.
You add it to a model.
You reconstruct the Gaussian process and
find the new maximum of
an acquisition function.
And just by [INAUDIBLE], you can quickly
find new drugs for different diseases.
[MUSIC]